examples/server/README.md, before:

# server

English| [中文](README_ZH.md)

`RuleGo-Server` is a ready-to-use standalone rule engine service, and this project is also a scaffold for developing RuleGo applications. You can perform secondary development based on this project, or you can directly download the executable [binary files](https://github.com/rulego/rulego/releases).

Visual Editor:[RuleGo-Editor](https://editor.rulego.cc/), configure the HTTP API of this project to manage and debug rule chains.

- Experience Address 1: [http://8.134.32.225:9090/editor/](http://8.134.32.225:9090/editor/)
- Experience Address 2: [http://8.134.32.225:9090/ui/](http://8.134.32.225:9090/ui/)


## HTTP API

[API Doc](https://apifox.com/apidoc/shared-d17a63fe-2201-4e37-89fb-f2e8c1cbaf40/234016936e0)

* Get all component lists
  - GET /api/v1/components

* Execute the rule chain and get the execution result API
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/execute/:msgType
  - chainId: The rule chain ID that processes the data
  - msgType: Message type
  - body: Message body

* Report data to the rule chain API, without focusing on the execution result
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/notify/:msgType
  - chainId: The rule chain ID that processes the data
  - msgType: Message type
  - body: Message body

* Query rule chain
  - GET /api/v1/rules/{chainId}/{nodeId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: If empty, query the rule chain definition; otherwise, query the specified node ID in the rule chain

* Save or update rule chain
  - POST /api/v1/rules/{chainId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: If empty, update the rule chain definition; otherwise, update the specified node ID in the rule chain
  - body: Update content

* Save rule chain Configuration
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/config/:varType
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - varType: vars/secrets
  - body: Configuration content

* Get node debugging log API
  - Get /api/v1/logs/debug?&chainId={chainId}&nodeId={nodeId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: Node ID

  When the node's debugMode is turned on, debugging logs will be recorded. Currently, this interface's logs are stored in memory, with each node saving the latest 40 entries. If historical data is needed, please implement an interface to store it in the database.

## server compilation

To save the size of the compiled file, the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components) is not included by default. Compile with the default setting:

```shell
cd cmd/server
go build .
```

If you need to include the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components), compile with the `with_extend` tag:

```shell
cd cmd/server
go build -tags with_extend .
```
Other extension component library tags:
- To register the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components), compile with the `with_extend` tag.
- To register the AI extension component [rulego-components-ai](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-ai), compile with the `with_ai` tag.
- To register the CI/CD extension component [rulego-components-ci](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-ci), compile with the `with_ci` tag.
- To register the IoT extension component [rulego-components-iot](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-iot), compile with the `with_iot` tag.

If you need to include multiple extension component libraries at the same time, you can compile with the `go build -tags "with_extend,with_ai,with_ci,with_iot" .` tag.

## server startup

```shell
./server -c="./config.conf"
```

Start in the background

```shell
nohup ./server -c="./config.conf" >> console.log &
```
## RuleGo-Editor
RuleGo-Editor is the UI interface of RuleGo-Server, which allows for the visual management, debugging, and deployment of rule chains.

Usage steps:
- Unzip the downloaded `editor.zip` to the current directory and visit `http://localhost:9090/` in your browser to access RuleGo-Editor.
- - The directory for rulego-editor can be modified by configuring the `resource_mapping` in `config.conf`.
- The backend API address for rulego-editor can be modified by configuring the `baseUrl` in `editor/config/config.js`.

>RuleGo-Editor is for learning purposes only. For commercial use, please purchase a license from us. Email: rulego@outlook.com

## Configuration file parameters
```ini
# Data directory
data_dir = ./data
# cmd component command whitelist
cmd_white_list = cp,scp,mvn,npm,yarn,git,make,cmake,docker,kubectl,helm,ansible,puppet,pytest,python,python3,pip,go,java,dotnet,gcc,g++,ctest
# Whether to load Lua third-party libraries
load_lua_libs = true
# http server
server = :9090
# Default user
default_username = admin
# Whether to print node execution logs to the log file
debug = true
# Maximum node log size, default 40
max_node_log_size =40
# Resource mapping
resource_mapping = /editor/*filepath=./editor,/images/*filepath=./editor/images
# Node pool file
node_pool_file=./node_pool.json

# Global custom configuration, components can take values through the ${global.xxx}
[global]
# example
sqlDriver = mysql
sqlDsn = root:root@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/test
```

Commit message:

feat(server):add etl components #49

examples/server/README.md, after:

# server

English| [中文](README_ZH.md)

`RuleGo-Server` is a ready-to-use standalone rule engine service, and this project is also a scaffold for developing RuleGo applications. You can perform secondary development based on this project, or you can directly download the executable [binary files](https://github.com/rulego/rulego/releases).

Visual Editor:[RuleGo-Editor](https://editor.rulego.cc/), configure the HTTP API of this project to manage and debug rule chains.

- Experience Address 1: [http://8.134.32.225:9090/editor/](http://8.134.32.225:9090/editor/)
- Experience Address 2: [http://8.134.32.225:9090/ui/](http://8.134.32.225:9090/ui/)


## HTTP API

[API Doc](https://apifox.com/apidoc/shared-d17a63fe-2201-4e37-89fb-f2e8c1cbaf40/234016936e0)

* Get all component lists
  - GET /api/v1/components

* Execute the rule chain and get the execution result API
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/execute/:msgType
  - chainId: The rule chain ID that processes the data
  - msgType: Message type
  - body: Message body

* Report data to the rule chain API, without focusing on the execution result
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/notify/:msgType
  - chainId: The rule chain ID that processes the data
  - msgType: Message type
  - body: Message body

* Query rule chain
  - GET /api/v1/rules/{chainId}/{nodeId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: If empty, query the rule chain definition; otherwise, query the specified node ID in the rule chain

* Save or update rule chain
  - POST /api/v1/rules/{chainId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: If empty, update the rule chain definition; otherwise, update the specified node ID in the rule chain
  - body: Update content

* Save rule chain Configuration
  - POST /api/v1/rules/:chainId/config/:varType
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - varType: vars/secrets
  - body: Configuration content

* Get node debugging log API
  - Get /api/v1/logs/debug?&chainId={chainId}&nodeId={nodeId}
  - chainId: Rule chain ID
  - nodeId: Node ID

  When the node's debugMode is turned on, debugging logs will be recorded. Currently, this interface's logs are stored in memory, with each node saving the latest 40 entries. If historical data is needed, please implement an interface to store it in the database.

## server compilation

To save the size of the compiled file, the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components) is not included by default. Compile with the default setting:

```shell
cd cmd/server
go build .
```

If you need to include the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components), compile with the `with_extend` tag:

```shell
cd cmd/server
go build -tags with_extend .
```
Other extension component library tags:
- To register the extension component [rulego-components](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components), compile with the `with_extend` tag.
- To register the AI extension component [rulego-components-ai](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-ai), compile with the `with_ai` tag.
- To register the CI/CD extension component [rulego-components-ci](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-ci), compile with the `with_ci` tag.
- To register the IoT extension component [rulego-components-iot](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-iot), compile with the `with_iot` tag.
- To register the ETL extension component [rulego-components-etl](https://github.com/rulego/rulego-components-etl), compile with the `with_etl` tag.

If you need to include multiple extension component libraries at the same time, you can compile with the `go build -tags "with_extend,with_ai,with_ci,with_iot" .` tag.

## server startup

```shell
./server -c="./config.conf"
```

Start in the background

```shell
nohup ./server -c="./config.conf" >> console.log &
```
## RuleGo-Editor
RuleGo-Editor is the UI interface of RuleGo-Server, which allows for the visual management, debugging, and deployment of rule chains.

Usage steps:
- Unzip the downloaded `editor.zip` to the current directory and visit `http://localhost:9090/` in your browser to access RuleGo-Editor.
- - The directory for rulego-editor can be modified by configuring the `resource_mapping` in `config.conf`.
- The backend API address for rulego-editor can be modified by configuring the `baseUrl` in `editor/config/config.js`.

>RuleGo-Editor is for learning purposes only. For commercial use, please purchase a license from us. Email: rulego@outlook.com

## Configuration file parameters
```ini
# Data directory
data_dir = ./data
# cmd component command whitelist
cmd_white_list = cp,scp,mvn,npm,yarn,git,make,cmake,docker,kubectl,helm,ansible,puppet,pytest,python,python3,pip,go,java,dotnet,gcc,g++,ctest
# Whether to load Lua third-party libraries
load_lua_libs = true
# http server
server = :9090
# Default user
default_username = admin
# Whether to print node execution logs to the log file
debug = true
# Maximum node log size, default 40
max_node_log_size =40
# Resource mapping
resource_mapping = /editor/*filepath=./editor,/images/*filepath=./editor/images
# Node pool file
node_pool_file=./node_pool.json

# Global custom configuration, components can take values through the ${global.xxx}
[global]
# example
sqlDriver = mysql
sqlDsn = root:root@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/test
```
